feat(blog): Article for 4.4 (#986)
withastro/astro.build: src/content/blog/astro-440.mdx

  - ema
  - matthew
  - nate
  - bjorn
coverImage: "/src/content/blog/_images/astro-440/post-header-4.4.webp"
socialImage: "/src/content/blog/_images/astro-440/og-image-4.4.webp"
lang: "en"
---

import perfAuditImage from "./_images/astro-440/perf-audit.webp"
import BlogContentImage from "/src/components/BlogContentImage.astro"

Astro 4.4 is now available! This release includes performance audits for the dev toolbar, performance upgrades, the ability to automatically infer the dimensions of remote images, and more.

Highlights include:

- [**Performance Audits**](#performance-audits)
- [**Audit list**](#audit-list)
- [**Improved streaming performance**](#improved-streaming-performance)
- [**New `inferSize` properties for remote images**](#automatically-infer-dimensions-of-remote-images)

## How to upgrade

To take advantage of the latest features, make sure you're running the latest version of Astro. You can upgrade to Astro 4.4 by running the `@astrojs/upgrade` command:

```sh
npx @astrojs/upgrade
```

or by running the upgrade command for your package manager:

```sh
npm install astro@latest
pnpm upgrade astro --latest
yarn upgrade astro --latest
```

## Performance audits

> Astro 4.4 includes the addition of performance audits for the dev toolbar. Much like the accessibility audits currently available, performance audits will help you identify and fix performance issues in your Astro site. For example, the dev toolbar will now warn you when a lazy-loaded image is above the fold, recommending instead that you use eager loading for better performance.

Reviewer: What does `above the fold` mean?

Author: It's a common term: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Above_the_fold

It means anything that doesn't require scrolling. I don't really think we need to define it in the article itself

<BlogContentImage src={perfAuditImage} alt="Shows a tooltip telling the user to use loading='lazy' on an image below the fold." />

## Audit list

Starting from Astro 4.4, the dev toolbar's audit app includes a small UI showing the list of problems that have been detected. This list is a great way to quickly see what issues need to be addressed, and to jump to the relevant part of the page to fix them. In the future, we'll be expanding this UI to show more information about each issue, and to provide more guidance on how to fix them.

## Improved streaming performance

> This release includes performance improvements for streaming. We discovered recently that `ReadableStream`s were slower than expected on Node, and migrated Astro to use `AsyncIterable` instead when running on Node. Notably, this change reduced the build time of Starlight websites with large sidebars by up to 47% in extreme cases. For more technical details, check out the [pull request](https://github.com/withastro/astro/pull/9614) for this change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This release includes performance improvements for streaming. We discovered recently that `ReadableStream`s were slower than expected on Node.js, and migrated Astro to use `AsyncIterable` instead when running on Node.js. Notably, this change reduced the build time of Starlight websites with large sidebars by up to 47% in extreme cases. For more technical details, check out the [pull request](https://github.com/withastro/astro/pull/9614) for this change.
```

The correct name is Node.js

No changes are required to take advantage of these improvements, which benefits both static builds and runtime performance, but you may notice faster build times and improved runtime performance, as a treat.

## Automatically infer dimensions of remote images

Thanks to [Oliver Speir](https://github.com/OliverSpeir), Astro 4.4 can now automatically infer the dimensions of remote images, which means you no longer need to specify the `width` and `height` attributes for remote images. This is especially useful when working with images from a CMS or other external sources where the dimensions of the image are not known at build time.

> To enable this feature, set the `inferSize` prop to `true` on the `Image` component:

Reviewer: Should we mention the `Picture` component too?

Author: Yes!

---
title: "Astro 4.4"
description: "Astro 4.4 is now available! This release includes the addition of performance audits for the dev toolbar, performance upgrades, the ability to automatically infer the dimensions of remote images, and more."
publishDate: "February 15, 2024"
authors:
  - erika
  - ema
  - matthew
  - nate
  - bjorn
coverImage: "/src/content/blog/_images/astro-440/post-header-4.4.webp"
socialImage: "/src/content/blog/_images/astro-440/og-image-4.4.webp"
lang: "en"
---

import perfAuditImage from "./_images/astro-440/perf-audit.webp"
import BlogContentImage from "/src/components/BlogContentImage.astro"

> Astro 4.4 is now available! This release includes performance audits for the dev toolbar, performance upgrades, the ability to automatically infer the dimensions of remote images, and more.

Reviewer 2: A bit of a nit but “performance upgrades” seemed a bit vague. Reusing the heading like this could be a bit clearer?

```suggestion
Astro 4.4 is now available! This release includes performance audits for the dev toolbar, improved streaming performance, the ability to automatically infer the dimensions of remote images, and more.
```

- [**Performance Audits**](#performance-audits)
- [**Audit list**](#audit-list)
- [**Improved streaming performance**](#improved-streaming-performance)
- [**New `inferSize` properties for remote images**](#automatically-infer-dimensions-of-remote-images)

## How to upgrade

To take advantage of the latest features, make sure you're running the latest version of Astro. You can upgrade to Astro 4.4 by running the `@astrojs/upgrade` command:

```sh
npx @astrojs/upgrade
```

or by running the upgrade command for your package manager:

```sh
npm install astro@latest
pnpm upgrade astro --latest
yarn upgrade astro --latest
```

## Performance audits

Astro 4.4 includes the addition of performance audits for the dev toolbar. Much like the accessibility audits currently available, performance audits will help you identify and fix performance issues in your Astro site. For example, the dev toolbar will now warn you when a lazy-loaded image is above the fold, recommending instead that you use eager loading for better performance.

<BlogContentImage src={perfAuditImage} alt="Shows a tooltip telling the user to use loading='lazy' on an image below the fold." />

## Audit list

> Starting from Astro 4.4, the dev toolbar's audit app includes a small UI showing the list of problems that have been detected. This list is a great way to quickly see what issues need to be addressed, and to jump to the relevant part of the page to fix them. In the future, we'll be expanding this UI to show more information about each issue, and to provide more guidance on how to fix them.

Reviewer 3: I don't think this comma is needed

```suggestion
Starting from Astro 4.4, the dev toolbar's audit app includes a small UI showing the list of problems that have been detected. This list is a great way to quickly see what issues need to be addressed and to jump to the relevant part of the page to fix them. In the future, we'll be expanding this UI to show more information about each issue, and to provide more guidance on how to fix them.
```

## Improved streaming performance

This release includes performance improvements for streaming. We discovered recently that `ReadableStream`s were slower than expected on Node.js, and migrated Astro to use `AsyncIterable` instead when running on Node.js. Notably, this change reduced the build time of Starlight websites with large sidebars by up to 47% in extreme cases. For more technical details, check out the [pull request](https://github.com/withastro/astro/pull/9614) for this change.

> No changes are required to take advantage of these improvements, which benefits both static builds and runtime performance, but you may notice faster build times and improved runtime performance, as a treat.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
No changes are required to take advantage of these improvements, which benefit both static builds and runtime performance. Sit back and enjoy faster build times and improved runtime performance, as a treat!
```
The "but" didn't feel right here, so you could go with something playful like above...

Author: Hmm, the playfulness kinda ruins the "as a treat" meme, I'll rewrite it slightly

## Automatically infer dimensions of remote images

> Thanks to [Oliver Speir](https://github.com/OliverSpeir), Astro 4.4 can now automatically infer the dimensions of remote images, which means you no longer need to specify the `width` and `height` attributes for remote images. This is especially useful when working with images from a CMS or other external sources where the dimensions of the image are not known at build time.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Thanks to [Oliver Speir](https://github.com/OliverSpeir), Astro 4.4 can now infer the dimensions of remote images. The new `inferSize` attribute can be used as a replacement for the previously required `width` and `height` attributes on remote images. This is especially useful when working with images from a CMS or other external sources where the dimensions of the image are not known at build time.
```
Took out "automatically" because you *do* have to add the property!

To enable this feature, set the `inferSize` prop to `true` on the `Image` or `Picture` components:

```astro
---
import { Image, Picture } from "astro:assets";
---

> <Image src="https://example.com/image.jpg" alt="A cool image" inferSize={true} />
> <Picture src="https://example.com/image.jpg" alt="A cool image" inferSize={true} />

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
<Image src="https://example.com/image.jpg" alt="A cool image" inferSize />
<Picture src="https://example.com/image.jpg" alt="A cool image" inferSize />
```
You can double check from my convo with Oliver in the docs PR/ask @OliverSpeir directly, but we're just showing the attribute like this on the component in docs. So, I think this is how we should show it here in the blog post!

https://github.com/withastro/docs/pull/6797

```

> or as a parameter to `getImage`:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
or as a parameter to `getImage()`:
```
